README.md, before:

# SPAC Interactive Visualization

**Real-time dashboard for spatial single-cell data exploration**

An interactive Shiny for Python dashboard that transforms complex spatial
single-cell datasets into dynamic, explorable visualizations. Just upload your
analyzed data and start discovering biological insights through intuitive point-and-click analysis.

## Why Use This Dashboard?

Spatial single-cell datasets are complex and difficult to explore. This interactive dashboard solves that by providing:

- **Live exploration** - Click, filter, and zoom through your spatial data in real-time
- **No coding required** - Intuitive interface for biologists
- **Multiple view types** - Spatial maps, dimensionality reduction plots, heatmaps, and statistics
- **Hypothesis testing** - Quickly subset data and compare cell populations interactively

![SPAC Interactive Dashboard](spac-screen.png)

## Interactive Features

### �️ **Spatial Visualization**
- **Interactive tissue maps** - Color cells by any feature, zoom into regions of interest
- **Real-time filtering** - Subset cells based on expression, location, or annotations
- **Customizable styling** - Adjust colors, point sizes, and transparency on-the-fly

### 📊 **Statistical Exploration**
- **Dynamic plots** - UMAP, t-SNE, heatmaps, boxplots that update as you filter data
- **Comparative analysis** - Side-by-side visualization of different conditions or cell types
- **Export ready figures** - Generate and download publication-quality plots directly from the interface

## Quick Start

### 🚀 Try the Live Demo
**No installation needed!** Explore SPAC with sample data:

👉 **[Launch Interactive Demo](https://appshare.cancer.gov/spac-interactive-visualization/)**

### 💻 Run Locally with Docker
```bash
git clone https://github.com/FNLCR-DMAP/SPAC_Shiny.git
cd SPAC_Shiny
make run
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001` to start exploring!

#### Other Useful Commands
```bash
make help      # Show all available commands
make logs      # View application logs
make stop      # Stop the container
make clean     # Remove container and image
```

### Load Your Data
Supports common spatial single-cell formats:
- **AnnData (.h5ad or pickle files)** - Standard format with spatial coordinates and features

## What You Can Explore

Perfect for analyzing:
- **Multiplex imaging data** (IMC, MIBI, MxIF, CyCIF, CODEX)
- **Spatial transcriptomics** (Visium, Xenium, MERFISH)
- **Tumor microenvironments** and tissue architecture
- **Cell-cell interactions** and spatial patterns

## Documentation & Support

- **[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)** - Step-by-step usage instructions
- **[Technical Details](TECHNICAL_DETAILS.md)** - Full project documentation and benchmarks
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/FNLCR-DMAP/SPAC_Shiny/issues)
- **Contact**: george.zaki@nih.gov

## Citation

```
Liu, F., He, R., Sheeley, T., et al. SPAC: A Scalable and Integrated Enterprise
Platform for Single-Cell Spatial Analysis. [under review] (2025)
```

---

Developed by Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research and Purdue Data
Mine

Commit message:

docs(architecture): add comprehensive reactive framework documentation
- Add REACTIVE_ARCHITECTURE.md with complete guide to reactive patterns
- Add QUICK_START_DOCS.md for quick documentation navigation
- Add REACTIVE_PATTERNS_QUICK_REF.md for daily development reference
- Add DEMO_PRESENTATION.md for demos and presentations
- Add VISUAL_CHEAT_SHEET.md as printable reference
- Add DOCUMENTATION_SUMMARY.md listing all created docs
- Add architecture_diagram.mmd showing system architecture
- Add data_flow_diagrams.mmd with 7 sequence diagrams
- Add documentation_navigation_map.mmd showing doc relationships
- Add docs/README.md as documentation index
- Update README.md with links to developer documentation

Documentation includes:
- 8 detailed reactive patterns with examples
- Step-by-step developer guide for adding features
- Best practices and troubleshooting guides
- Visual diagrams for architecture and data flows
- Multiple learning paths for different skill levels

README.md, after:

# SPAC Interactive Visualization

**Real-time dashboard for spatial single-cell data exploration**

An interactive Shiny for Python dashboard that transforms complex spatial
single-cell datasets into dynamic, explorable visualizations. Just upload your
analyzed data and start discovering biological insights through intuitive point-and-click analysis.

## Why Use This Dashboard?

Spatial single-cell datasets are complex and difficult to explore. This interactive dashboard solves that by providing:

- **Live exploration** - Click, filter, and zoom through your spatial data in real-time
- **No coding required** - Intuitive interface for biologists
- **Multiple view types** - Spatial maps, dimensionality reduction plots, heatmaps, and statistics
- **Hypothesis testing** - Quickly subset data and compare cell populations interactively

![SPAC Interactive Dashboard](spac-screen.png)

## Interactive Features

### �️ **Spatial Visualization**
- **Interactive tissue maps** - Color cells by any feature, zoom into regions of interest
- **Real-time filtering** - Subset cells based on expression, location, or annotations
- **Customizable styling** - Adjust colors, point sizes, and transparency on-the-fly

### 📊 **Statistical Exploration**
- **Dynamic plots** - UMAP, t-SNE, heatmaps, boxplots that update as you filter data
- **Comparative analysis** - Side-by-side visualization of different conditions or cell types
- **Export ready figures** - Generate and download publication-quality plots directly from the interface

## Quick Start

### 🚀 Try the Live Demo
**No installation needed!** Explore SPAC with sample data:

👉 **[Launch Interactive Demo](https://appshare.cancer.gov/spac-interactive-visualization/)**

### 💻 Run Locally with Docker
```bash
git clone https://github.com/FNLCR-DMAP/SPAC_Shiny.git
cd SPAC_Shiny
make run
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001` to start exploring!

#### Other Useful Commands
```bash
make help      # Show all available commands
make logs      # View application logs
make stop      # Stop the container
make clean     # Remove container and image
```

### Load Your Data
Supports common spatial single-cell formats:
- **AnnData (.h5ad or pickle files)** - Standard format with spatial coordinates and features

## What You Can Explore

Perfect for analyzing:
- **Multiplex imaging data** (IMC, MIBI, MxIF, CyCIF, CODEX)
- **Spatial transcriptomics** (Visium, Xenium, MERFISH)
- **Tumor microenvironments** and tissue architecture
- **Cell-cell interactions** and spatial patterns

## Documentation & Support

### 📖 For Users
- **[Getting Started Guide](getting_started.md)** - Step-by-step usage instructions
- **[Technical Details](TECHNICAL_DETAILS.md)** - Full project documentation and benchmarks

### 👨‍💻 For Developers
- **[Reactive Architecture Guide](docs/REACTIVE_ARCHITECTURE.md)** - Complete guide to the app's reactive framework
- **[Quick Reference](docs/REACTIVE_PATTERNS_QUICK_REF.md)** - Condensed reactive patterns reference
- **[Demo Presentation](docs/DEMO_PRESENTATION.md)** - Overview for demos and new contributors
- **[Quick Start Guide](docs/QUICK_START_DOCS.md)** - How to use the documentation
- **[Architecture Diagrams](docs/)** - Visual diagrams (Mermaid format)

### 🤝 Community
- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/FNLCR-DMAP/SPAC_Shiny/issues)
- **Contact**: george.zaki@nih.gov

## Citation

```
Liu, F., He, R., Sheeley, T., et al. SPAC: A Scalable and Integrated Enterprise
Platform for Single-Cell Spatial Analysis. [under review] (2025)
```

---

Developed by Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research and Purdue Data
Mine
